The modern testing podcast join your hosts Alan and Brent I am mindless agile
robot I must iterate as we talk about software engineering software quality
leadership and whatever else comes to mind now on with the show hey Brent hi
Alan it's good to be back yeah and thank you for listening yes been a
rough week Alan I'm sorry I'm sorry we moved into a we at unity yeah the thing I
saw you were in two headquarters oh so no no no no no no no so a test bash is
going on this week shut out the test bashers in San Francisco and Philippe
walked by the unity office probably the main one in San Francisco where test
bash is and waved at it we currently have two different offices in San
Francisco because we outgrew that one so we have one for ads and one for the rest
of unity at some point I believe we'll reconsolidate in a larger space so that's
that was my comment about two buildings but even better I currently now work in
hands down the absolute nicest office I've ever been in in my life I visited
Google and I visited Facebook and screw them our unity Bellevue office is
sometimes you walk in the rooms you just laugh cuz they're over the top we have
there it's really good it's really fun even our in a weird space before we were
we were renting some just some random office space for a shoved in there until
we could build something and we're in Lincoln Square those you know know the
area the new Lincoln Square building which is four blocks away from the old
Lincoln Square building where I used to work on Microsoft Teams but it is very
good we still get lunch served every day and now we have our own kitchen on
site so we have chefs and food staff that prepare that for us and it is
fantastic I will say the time so there is a when when James worked at Google
he invited me over several times to go do lunch there and the lunch experience
at Google is just yeah there's is there's a choice there because there's so
many people they can be there's different chef stations depending on what
you want to do we get one lunch for everyone there's enough right of there
it's very good so anyway office is good I missed the grand opening the week they
moved in I was in Europe visiting with my team which was good Europe was good
got I had meet with the group formerly known as my leads because only one of
them still works for me anymore through the power of modern testing I still
coach mentor helped them a lot all of them so that's going on but interesting
conversations about what this means and and how that fits into how I guess at
a meta level how what happens when modern testing takes off we already had a
message from one listener who did work himself out of a role and a job we took
care of we talked about in a mailbag a few episodes ago I have plenty of job
and plenty of role left but I'm also used to things with larger scope so I'm
trying to the thing we're working together on it's good to have this
group people to work with is how do you if you're you imagine the visual I
guess is is as I'm delegating more of this work away to developers and other
people as we move towards something like modern testing what do I feel that void
with that gap with and some of this just you know some of that scope continues but
what happens is is more like it's delegated I do gain more capacity and
it's good to have a plan as you gain capacity and ability to do more stuff
you have a pipeline to fill those things I have a pipeline but the water is
not on full blast it's trickling in some working on that that is those such the
transitions can can definitely be challenging yeah I think and I was
prepared for it it just what happens is again with the visual if it all of a
sudden pours out faster than you expected yo wait I got to turn the
water on over here so imagine you have a bucket and you have water pouring out
one side you have water pouring it at the same speed your bucket stays full
my water started pouring out of my bucket faster than my incoming stream
yes so so the capacity went up as the water level went down not a huge issue
but just something we talked a lot about like what do we do what are some
options just trying to find the best things to do we is the group formerly
known as my leads oh so we had our it's not just you they're even having no no
no cuz they're there in no no it's mostly me okay mostly me all right so
anyway we work together are there consequences to know of your leads
express or your former leads expressed any sort of negative consequences
absolutely not they're they're they feel supported by their new manager they
do they do all right all is well oh yeah that is we done data science what yeah
that's that's what you do next data science I should be doing more with data
and I have a couple options there but probably not to be discussed here okay I
don't know if I've ever mentioned this before one of the thing before we get
into the meat of the topic of the day is I think my LinkedIn profile my advice
is and I did this for a while at Microsoft is just don't put your title
in your LinkedIn title don't just for when I did generic employee as my title
as my job title the random recruiter and BS mail I got from people went
remarkably down it all depends on where you are in terms of wanting to explore
the the job market I well no because there's two things I get I don't just get
random job recruitment things I got two different emails this week asking me if
I wanted to be a contract s debt on Windows we looked at your profile we
think you may be a good fit for this I said did you know did you did you
actually respond no I didn't okay the thing is I don't want and and but
what's worse than the random recruiting things is the amount of vendor spam I
get both in LinkedIn and somehow they got they figured out my email address I
don't know where but the amount I get sent to both my Alan angry weasel calm
which listeners know and my my unity account on you let us help you
revolutionize your QA testing business with our QA automation tools and and
testers we can help you improve the reliability and stability of your testing
process and I'm just making up crap but that's what their stuff sounds like too
and then not only do some of this stuff that I delete or go straight straight
to my spam folder some of these vendors actually get mad that I don't reply Alan
you haven't replied to our mail what is wrong with you what the hell is what the
hell are you doing why don't you care about quality not in those words but but
follow up after follow up can I please have 30 minutes to tell you how stupid
you're being by not contacting us and holy crap like non-stop I get 20 a week
and now they're set up they all go to my spam folder so only see him I go
empty out my spam make sure nothing good in there but it is absolutely over the
top ridiculous like no I don't want to hire an army of vendors to test my web
by website because 10% maybe 5% a tiny bit of what I do our websites and no I
don't want to write a gazillion selenium tests just this morning I got
a note I got a note over LinkedIn saying hey are you interested in
selenium certification you know my answer is that I didn't lie yeah it's no
trucking way so I yeah I that is and my title is I think this quality director
and not QA director not test manager I want to direct quality I want to be in
charge of quality which I which means I influence a lot of people and sometimes
I don't remember when someone oh I signed up for a webinar and I accidentally put
in my right phone number and they called me oh dude and I didn't what
happened was is it was a Chrome autofill and normally I purposely delete
out the phone number or I'll alter it if they require it and I must have missed
it and they called and wanted to know what do testers do and said not what
you expect what are testers you know what you expect leave me the hell alone
yeah I know they're I know this is their business and but hell and then one last
thing is every once in a while I will because I'll glance at some of these
things I'll just kind of see what they're selling and go oh god no
everyone's mostly something wow that's actually kind of cool and I won't give
any names here but I will follow up a little bit and say well tell me more
about this how does it work is there a demo cool or a video whatever and then I
asked about pricing and it is a tools are a crazy market which is weird giving
how many good tools are available open source because some of these tools are
three thousand five thousand ten thousand dollars ahead subscription for
fifty thousand dollars a year like wow that's a lot of money even in
Microsoft dollars yeah there the but then again you balance what's only half
an employee for a year to have that well the problem is is that is again these
tool companies that are essentially targeting niche markets yes all right
their license fees have to be through the roof yeah I know they had to make
money I get it I get the business model but it's a tough place to be in it I mean
you have only a certain level of business size that can support that cost yeah yeah
it's it's not a business market that I would want to be in no no and a lot of
times I have to shy it away there is this this one tool that that I
really really really really love it really makes things simple but it's six
grand for a single user and you have to renew it on an annual basis yeah and I'm
like you know what don't love it that much and I could rewrite it with greater
than six grand worth of satisfaction through Python or R for for my needs
yeah the the frugality of I mean I'm sure it's the right price for the market
but the frugality of it of me my frugalness makes you think God that's
really tough to justify anyway but vendors if you're listening I know you're
not please stop if I don't call me I'll call you yeah I the the vendor stuff even
the people I get the same crap and the problem is it is there is good stuff out
there but I know it's there what the good stuff I know it's there if I don't I'll
find it so I got one just this week and it's it's one of the few I've gotten
recently where where I like huh that might be interesting and it's Facebook
reached out they they're looking to bolster their leadership team and what
they call the data analytics space and I'm like okay that could potentially be
interesting wait where's Facebook Oh Seattle yeah no I guess I'm not driving
or working in Seattle you take a bus I take a bus nope do I do mailbags first
or do the thing first let's do mailbags first because I think it feeds in okay hey
we have a couple questions from the mailbag from Johan his question there
have been a lot of discussions about how to get testers to change and adapt MT
but in my work now I talk more to developers so I was wondering what parts
have you found hard to get buy-in from developers and how do you get through to
them as an example number five seems to be a big thing for testers but with
developers I've not had an issue with a single number for me developers have
liked the idea and bought into them almost from the start and the issues
start to come after a while when they understand how much responsibilities they
really have it's kind of sounds like he's figured it out already MT isn't
about improving or adapting your testing as as an individual at least MT is
about leadership and quality if you're able to lead the team towards those
things and improve that quality culture then you are then you are doing the
right thing read me the first sentence again before I think in his
elaboration he answered it well so the here's the question what parts of modern
testing have you found hard to get buy-in from developers and how do you get them
it depends on the developer I think in my experience on some teams just getting
him over the hump of like oh you can actually do testing is once they begin
to understand that things go much quicker but if you have an old school
like I can imagine developers at Microsoft you tell them to do testing
they go screw you not my job I would say the the hardest part of it is is
on that front right multiple folks have pushed back on MT making the statement
but but dev doesn't want to do testing right and now number one I'm pretty sure
I've said this here before right you don't build a whole test discipline just
because some other discipline doesn't want to do that work okay that's number
one number two once you've worked with the developers then this is where I would
say is the hardest part when when I did unified engineering it was actually
rather easy because I basically said you know what developer so if you recall I
had a combined team some that came back from xdev some came from xtest when I
stated this requirement it the the test was like oh sure makes sense no problem
okay but what I found is as the developers who really didn't want to do
the testing they would take shortcuts and they would ship the prod and then
there was another process that I had where essentially bugs get funded by the
whole team and so and on the board is fairly transparent so when when you
hotshot dev specialist basically gaining the perception of the team has to
prepare for an interrupt every time your thing ships the social behavior begins
to to I get it I get it I think it's preparing there's a perceived perceived
velocity drop when developers own quality and testing it's not perceived it is real
no no it's perceived because I'm if because they don't count the rework time
that will happen later after they find all their bugs that's why I mean
perceived so the other thing that I did back in those days is I had the similar
sign you know like you see a like construction sites a sign that says zero
days without incident man so I had a similar thing and I said okay guys when
we get to 30 days without anything lunch is on me not Microsoft me we're all
gonna go to roost Chris it took them six months to get there and every time it
got to like 28 and then one of those developers checked in something and
didn't do enough testing right the social pressure kicked in the but also
having that measure and that goal was something that helped positive behavior
the last thing though because it's part of this where they have this theory right
oh it's gonna delay time it's gonna do all it's gonna add time delays I don't
want to do this work in the first place once I got through that hurdle once I
got the 30 days bug-free we didn't have a we got to like 60 once we got the 30
because what happened is they kept on having to re-arc they had to re-discuss
they they both they added on the right test cases and it turned that developer
completely 180 degrees to a place where they were upset when I left because
they're like holy crap what if my new manager forces me to go back to this
old stupid world right so it's if you make it visible then the problem that
you're talking about kind of goes away yeah but I guess maybe even the shorter
answer is there may be some initial problems on some calm legacy dev teams
but but I think in my experience beyond that developers are they see much less
controversy in MT than testers do because again modern testing isn't about
testing it's about building software in a way that is much more efficient and
delivers customer value better and more frequently than traditional testing so
it makes sense his experience makes sense I expect that would be the same for
everyone will be less controversy with dev teams in fact I think it was I
Michael Cross who showed the video of my test bash Brighton talk on modern
testing which was the debut of Monty the modern tester and his dev team washed
it and they said things like oh it's just common sense so I think it's gonna
be typical on most dev teams and and the ones that freak out are the ones
that either need a lot of work from you as a leader to get them there or
teams just to run away from and let them die a slow miserable death of failure
what's the next question on that bright note from Ryan Ryan the Ryanator for a
team that is starting to practice the MT principles what would you recommend as
the first steps how would you show MT's value to stakeholders managers that have
a traditional testing mindset I see now why you thought this would be a good segue
into the main topic of the day so let's answer this question for the next 25
minutes okay if you don't mind I don't okay good good to be clear and I
mentioned this before but the lead-up here I'll say it again I have not once
ever gone to anyone at unity anyone on my teams is saying here's this thing I
call modern testing we're gonna do it here are my principles we should all
follow them that's one it wouldn't work but two it's just not the way I
do things I don't think anyone should do that well I'm just clear I don't so I
don't want anyone to think that oh you can just say you're doing it and you'll
show people the the video and put the principles on the wall and bam we are
MT there are a lot of folks that have asked for like specific steps to do
this and I'm honestly rather worried about being overly prescriptive because
it's gonna be a tautology but leading people leading teams towards modern
testing is a leadership challenge yes so one way but it's also not an
intellectually lazy one correct so well let me tell you a little bit how this
came about I the thing I'm about to talk about I gave a talk at the test
leadership Congress in New York in May I believe keynote on leading a quality
culture and I at that point I talked a lot about quality culture what it meant
to me a lot about leadership test leadership conference Congress but I
hadn't thought at least formally about what actually is how would you define
at a more granular level what a quality culture is and then maybe just a few
weeks later I was in a conversation at unity with my manager and a few of my
peers and this idea of like I start I was I quality culture on the mind I
was talking about quality culture and I said well what is it how would you
define it and and I said let me I think I can do that let me write that
down and I thought about it for a couple days and and thought and thought I
said I don't know what to write down how do I how can I quantify in some way or
what how do I describe a quality culture in a way that covers all the things that
would that would lead a team towards quality I very much put a modern
testing lens on it and that I looked at agile and lean and the modern
testing principles I thought what what makes a team function in an empty way
and all of a sudden at some point something clicked and I do so much work
air-quilt work just driving around and walking the dog and thinking that when I
spit this thing out originally it was like an hour of work and it's had some
tweaking since then but not overhauled edits so what I built after that long
diatribe is a quality grid it's I I'm pausing because it frequently gets
referred to as a maturity model and I hate maturity models for many reasons
one is just a basic allergic this to things like CMM CMMI how about the
quality culture transition guide let's call it that quality culture transition
guide if I had internet access I change it right now my original doc so what I
did and the way this worked out and just do my thought process before we go
through these is I listed the hard part was coming up with what were the
attributes of a team really clicking on frequently delivering customer value
accelerating the achievement of quality what does a good dev team a good
engineering team look like delivering that as able to break it down into about
I should count them eight attributes but I'll read them then we'll kind of go
through them one by one I might have mentioned these on a previous podcast
we'll dive a little bit deeper today quality and test ownership and I'll come
back and go deeper into these like who owns quality technical debt and
maintenance code quality and tools customer data analysis the development
approach learning and improvement and leadership emphasis and Brent I'm gonna
ask you to interrupt me whenever you want otherwise I'm just gonna talk a
little bit about what I did those those headers are sort of horizontal aspects yes
you think or expect teams to be in fact it's probably a good time to
interject a partial answer to the question is I would look at how well the
team is doing on each of those aspects each of those horizontals and some areas
they may be more I'll put it in the accelerate way some teams may have more
capabilities in those areas than other in some areas than others you can use
this quality culture transition guide love it to figure out where one where you
are but not to grade yourself in the in the old world of maturity model but to
figure out where you may need to make improvement so let's talk about testing
breadth wait before you continue on there's there's one thing I would say
sure so first off with anything that's the one paradigm here you often hear it
as you can think of it as a crawl walk run type model exactly right now generally
my guidance when dealing with these type of things is first you go through an
inventory where you're at and then you go okay how do we get to the next column
don't try to skip columns generally is what I advise because a lot of times that
creates more problems than it's worth I definitely agree and but even that
even that approach sounds a little bit too much like the old maturity model
approach to me so what I have had teams do is sort of assess themselves on where
they are on the model sometimes just the the QA person on my team but more often
with a with the dev lead with them and then not worry about necessarily about
getting to the next box but okay we've gone through this now we've it's forced
us to take a different kind of retrospective on overall on what the
team is doing and how we approach software and delivery and building things
and what are one or two or three areas we want to work on improving in this
transition guide comes up a lot in retrospectives and in the incorporation of
an experimental or experimenting culture where you say hey let's brainstorm come
up with ideas around what what actions we should take let's take those actions
let's also determine how we're going to determine if it's success succeeded or
failed and if it failed no judgment call except if we you know try it again
or continue trying to power through that's the biggest thing that I see let
me I have a gazillion examples of how we've used this so let me just go ahead
get through it but I gotta get a little bit more I think the listeners need a
little bit more than just the headers so I'll talk a little bit about how I
built the model and what's in there so I built a transition guide a model I call
it the thing sometimes to avoid calling it any sort of maturity thing but there's
a starting level where the thing basically isn't happening where there is
no testing breath where people assume that doing some happy path tests is
enough what horizontal you talking about I'm talking about testing breath okay
this is testing breath so if you have a lack of almost complete lack of capability
in testing breath you're probably focused almost entirely on functional testing
and verification you may do some other things but they're not planned and
sporadic whereas if you are super mature and the way I built this was to kind of
describe what I thought like what is it if you're basically not doing this
and what is it like if you are like rock stars kicking butt at this superstars
and if you're at the top level building a multi-dimensional quality strategy is
part of how the team builds software design includes that your testing
approaches consistently cover all areas of like the agile quadrant you want to
use that model you're thinking about all aspects of quality your continues to
thinking about what are the different ways I mean the test is where do we
need to do perf securities involved early as a specialty but also you're
just thinking about all the different things and go wrong all the time and
we've we've dealt with teams like this so there are teams that do operate at
that level and of course there are levels in between where maybe you're
you're not you're getting to learn things but you're not doing them
consistently there's there's levels in between but the growth is from one end
to the other on the testing breath you're saying that there's a multi-dimensional
you say thinking I don't necessarily think you're referring to a you know a
traditional test plan no I said a quality strategy how do we build this
with quality meaning right I'm building a if I'm building YouTube probably not the
best MVP to start with but if I'm building YouTube I'm thinking about
scale and reliability and security and all those things from square one they're
not like oh wow I guess I should think about scale so there's the old-school
60-page test plan no no I'm just saying this criteria though it does not okay
because the old-school 60-page test plan was often not a strategy with often a
list of things and even worse a list of test cases that would be done against
these things I don't want that I this is about and you you're playing devil's
advocate here but this is about a full-breath quality strategy as is
planned and executed as part of building the thing you you and I have been on
teams where illities any perf or security or scale testing that's what we
did at the very end of the product when we knew we're gonna ship in two
weeks anyway and we found a bunch of bugs that people weren't gonna fix
because it was just too late because oh that's gonna be an architecture change
we can't do that now yeah the the other thing I would say in there would be
right adaptability is gonna be key in there right I think the biggest thing so
I think you're trying to express an element of holistic aspect yeah I want
you to recognize like all these things matter and we'll go a little faster
through the rest so we can finish well let me know yeah cuz we're never gonna
finish go ahead go ahead this number one I don't think you're saying anything
around prescriptive or are reactive right as you know I don't want everyone anyone
building the 80 page test plan what I'm saying is that all has to be done
before we ship all aspects of quality are considered from day one to day in
that's it that's at the top level and there's steps you can think about what
you need to do to get there in between you again we can all think of the baby
steps I'm not gonna list them out here yep quality and test ownership at level
one is traditional testing I should even call it level one when you have
lack of capability you're doing there's a test team that does all the testing
because it's their job and it's not and developers do developing because it's
their job okay but at the other end I could probably set up with the last line
in this thing which I did not get any pushback even from people outside my
team where you truly have whole team owned quality and one of my gripes with
agile testing is even though Lisa and Janet Lisa Crispin Janet Gregory
describe whole team testing is everyone owns testing and quality often what I
see unfortunately on agile teams is even there is they iterate but the tester
stills the tester on the team still does all the testing the agile tester yeah I
don't think that's Lisa Janet no it's definitely not their intent they they sigh
visibly or or with verbs every time this comes up but I'll read the end of
this that the test specialist focuses on coaching the team and assisting
quality efforts sounds like MT blah blah blah and then last sentence where I did
not get any pushback because I've shared this across all of unity is teams at
this level may not need a dedicated quality specialist nobody shit their pants
nobody freaked out yeah I think we've talked about those things enough on
here we don't need to go any deeper yeah technical debt and one thing on
the last one that I'm tired of if everyone owns quality then nobody
owns quality alright that's it okay so tech debt and maintenance this is the
biggest thing here something talked about is just working from a zero bug
backlog but we also need to recognize that bugs are not the only form of tech
debt keep your debt paid off keep it zero team that that is very has zero
or a little capability here has a huge bug backlog they have all kinds of to
do's riddled through the code they have they don't even know what static
analysis linter errors they have because they don't run those tools they
have a huge both known and unknown mound of tech debt whereas teams on the most
mature scale have little to zero leaning towards zero tech debt they just
don't carry it forward they pay their bills on time something else we've also
talked about in the context of empty a lot or they they cancel their
subscription right to me a bug is not necessarily tech debt right as we've
talked on multiple cases there's many a bugs that are never worth fixing right
but I think just not even but I would say keeping those bugs around even if
you're not going to fix them that is debt because you end up looking at those
bugs over and over again that's waste is in my waste yeah fine and in between
you can see like okay we're keeping things triage we have a we have a fairly
low bug camp but we're happy with 20 and that's I guess it's a start but you
can look at where you are in between and where you want to go and figure
things out the team that when I started at unity had the highest bug
count and was the crummiest quality is now down finally under 10 total bugs
that they carry that they carry and there with the goal still to get to zero
by the end of the year but in fact another one of my teams that was when
that team got low there was another pair of teams that were then my new
highest in the 30s and they just got to zero yesterday day before so slowly but
surely almost all of the teams in my jurisdiction area care about are still on
track to get to a zero bug backlog by the end of the calendar year and the
teams that have gotten there and sustained it what's their feedback it's
it's freeing right no I know that I'm yeah yeah that's how they feel yeah it's
all like oh this is much better but they don't miss doing triage beans we look
at the same bugs over and over and over no yeah I don't either yeah but the other
phenomenon that I noticed is that once you get to that state and you've
maintained that state it becomes a lot clearer that how bad feature development
was for you and you were carrying that bug backlog right the thing I've noticed
with all the teams I've put them through is essentially this model sort of
encourages more scalable architectures and a scalable architecture allows you to
produce features when you trying to figure out how to not fund the bug but
string a feature through a minefield of a couple hundred bugs your estimates
go slower in your release like for sure yep you are correct go next attribute is
around code quality and tools and this means a team that does no capability
here they compile their code and then there and you can see these things
interact because if you're you're not going to be generally I have a hard time
thinking of a team who had no capability in some areas but we're very very high
in other areas so team they're not running they're probably compiling at a
look not at the highest warning level these aren't independent attributes right
exactly they will just like the modern testing principles yeah so they're not
using any to any code correctness tools things like code coverage which is a
wonderful tool in a horrible metric linters compiler warnings other static
analysis tools security analysis tools teams that are very mature here their
CI runs a crap ton of code correctness tools because that's where we can catch
the bulk of those things and that's where they should be caught not by tests
down the road this is like the level of tests that run before unit tests yeah
and then goes with tech debt so you turn on these linters I see teams turn
on linters and go oh this is bad I'm gonna have I'm gonna run the linter but
we're gonna turn off all the warnings like I you I get what you're doing
there but you you yeah teams that are very mature here they they are
constantly trying to find holes or risk using code coverage they have linters and
static analysis tools running on on every check-in to make sure that they
have the highest code correctness they can and in the middle levels maybe
you're starting to use things be to look at the results or you turn or you
turn off a lot of the rules for our linters you're not I think teams at a
mature level here are also not just running these tools but they're looking
for additional tools my partner what they do is like oh what else do you
define this looking for code correctness tools as part of maybe some
of the investigation that comes out of a retro or an RCA analysis yeah the one
thing I guess it's RC analysis or otherwise it's redundant release no no
root cause analysis rather than saying RCA analysis is redundant right it's like
an ATM machine anyway go on right yeah the one thing I was actually really
fond of back in the day was measuring cyclo-matic complexity oh yeah yeah at
the nice and even complexity metrics are a great thing for risk we had you
and side to engineer unity had a hack week they had to have one every year I
haven't been to one yet my travel is a little crazy this summer but I did make
sure I took a half a day during hack week in the Seattle office and just do
something random and the random thing I did was I wrote again using some
helpers from the NPM library I wrote a little node app that would look at the
files you had checked out run a complexity analysis tools around a bunch
of different around cyclo-matic complexity Halsted metrics and some other
complexity analysis and we give home with an overall number and I would flag files
or functions that had in just your checked out files that have a high
level level over and whatever N was of complexity because complexity doesn't
mean the code is buggy it's a smoke alarm out of fire it means there is risk there
yeah I mean that the one thing that I haven't observed yet is tooling that can
analyze how you've put together your code and help to simplify it yeah hey if
you if you incorporate this design pattern instead of the thing that you did
you'd be able to reduce part of it is part of the maturity here is continuing
to search for things like that yes chances are eventually they'll exist
next thing near and dear to do you have a heart no okay near and dear to the
cavity and branch chest where a heart would live is customer data analysis yay
we're at a where you had low capability you don't do it you don't collect anything
about higher products being used and then you can imagine we've talked about
Brent's data maturity model in here before right but I think the lower lowest
capability I would hope this doesn't exist but it would essentially be your
entire team functions off of what's the founder syndrome which is essentially no
founder of a startup has ever has ever understood why his idea isn't the hottest
thing since pancakes yeah and I'm actually gonna read through the model
here because I think it'll help explain it and I'll go quickly I'll skip so free
in this transition guide I wrote I wrote a couple levels in between to help
figure help teams like figure out where they were in the middle and figure out
what kind of things they could do to improve and I have a whole accompanying
doc I wrote internally it talks a little more deeply this will be in the
twenty twenty eight release of the modern testing book I'm just making that
twenty twenty eight yeah I figure it'll take that long it'll be obsolete
like oh we're coming up on the ten year anniversary of how we test off
right Microsoft by the way I'll need to write a blog post about that so anyway
on data analysis I mentioned like it's data is untracked or ignored with a few
more capabilities a little more higher along the transition guide you're gonna
have some data track that may be used to understand quality prioritization data
may be discarded if it does not match intuition or anecdotal feedback and
we've seen this happen but you're starting to collect data you just don't
trust it yet because it's it's yeah it's what do you call this data affirmed
yeah that's similar to that level it was a Steve Rowe call it that but I've now
stolen it all right yeah and I stole it from you
yay me and then even before you get to the most you know optimal level you
may be at a level where the team has at least a handful of metrics in place
that help them understand feature quality and customer experience there's probably
some holes in interpreting the data but those usually address quickly
instrumentation and or analytics as part of the requirements are done definition
and almost all and almost always done as part of feature development so at
that point you're well on your way to becoming data centric but like all
things that are like maturity models even if we don't like to call them that
there's a level where that can be okay for a while for some teams you don't
have to get to the highest level in everything no I like that it's a guide
yes it's to help you read you read through and figure out okay here's
something I can do more of this is actually the way I want it to be used is
for I mean in a very immature quality culture you might think that okay once
the test team plays with the buttons and things for 10 minutes or an hour or
a day then we ship and it's good but looking at what are all the things that
actually influence a quality culture two more rows to go through three more
ways to get last one can you reread that very quickly again no because I
paraphrased what I wrote so it'll be even different so the team has a
handful of metrics in place help them understand feature quality customer
experience although there may be some holes they're usually addressed quickly
analytics as part of the requirements or done definition and almost always done
as part of feature development okay okay because what I think you said was
instrumentation before analytics is a much better word yeah I have I used both
in here so but the one problem I also see and this by no means is a north star
that we're trying to guide people towards and that is a lot of times you'll
see in the traditional world you'll see a PM with their 60 page spec listing out
requirements and then there's a three page section of all the instrumentation
requirements and it's just a grab bag of random crap here I would say go back to
what episode was it 62 the hypothesis episode where I I don't know remember
the exercise I walked you through yeah I don't know it was in the I was in the
80s that's far more helpful all right really important thing is the
development approach and this is where a lean and agile come in at the zero
capability level you have no approach it's pure cowboy write it and compile it
and ship it world we're at the end of course you have a system Brent and I both
prefer Kanban but basically you have working in small batches flow is high
you probably are using experimentation to deliver features or delivering things
behind flags you have a development approach that allows the team to ship
quickly and safely which is worse try to think through which is worse big design
up front or cowboy equally bad that is a good question I like to tweet that well
they do I want anarchy or over prescription and very quickly because
we're a little tight on time yeah the last two are learning and improvement I
mentioned earlier we're and we've been on teams that don't give a crap about
improving there's no retros they don't try and get better at anything they're
just happy to crank out their crummy software day after day where on the other
end of the spectrum you probably have teams where you do have teams who retro
they do recognize that retros are the most important things they can do
every week the whole team is a learning organization people focus on
learning and getting better and growing as part of the software development and
that helps improve culture overall which reminds me to refer to the lens
you only work that shows that organizational health which I think
comes from this is direct as a direct correlation with product quality it does
there is a absolute principle there that may be of what you just mentioned you're
gonna post this up on MT at some point at some point I'm not sure if I want to
share the whole grid yet but I will okay and then the last level is around
leadership emphasis which I you gave me some feedback which I thought about and
rejected I don't think that mandates of thou shalt have a quality culture work
so the the maturity here the growth is a little interesting so we'll just cover
it briefly and then you can send us a bunch of mail by questions we'll dive in
deeper in the following weeks is at a at the lowest level here there is no
leadership support zero because they did they just there's nothing that that
supports sort of that cowboy culture we talked about in development approach
and everything else and that can come from multiple different ways yeah
whereas as you get a little bit more mature the leadership communicates
quality is they like say quality is important it's part of what we do it's
in our vision etc and at the most mature level it's you get to a level
where leadership doesn't need to be involved because the team is
internalized qualities what they do I mean it's still part of the rallying cry
anyway we'll dive deeper later but that's sort of how that works and I
didn't get to talk about the examples we'll do that why don't we plan on doing
that next time yeah there's more I what would want to talk about for Ryan's
let's figure out a good agenda of topics and things we want to dive into
next time hope that was a good start to an answer for Ryan's question and we'll
continue to answer it on the next time we talk on A-B testing okay goodbye
everybody bye